so this is the full ENT up bios guide
we're going to go over all the settings
in this MSI bios you can transfer this
over to other bioses if you want but
this is just going to be for MSI bioses
and it should transfer over for every
single other bios as long as you're on
ntel but anyways we're going to go to
overclocking settings and then P cor
ratio you want to set this to whatever
the max turbo clock speed for your CPU
is so I have a 13900 K as you can see on
the top right so for me it's going to be
56 and if you're on a 14th gen I9 it's
going to be the same thing 56 I just
like doing that on MSI and sending that
to fixed mode just so you lock all your
course at a certain speed and that just
can help with a lot of issues and it
could prevent the degradation issue as
well so we're going to set these ABX
values to zero so basically CP ratio
offset when running ABX anytime you put
ABX workload it'll drop but we just
don't want it to drop so we're going to
set it to zero ring down bin disable
this that's a power saving feature go to
Advanced CPU configuration and
hyperthreading for most of us you could
disable this however if you do editing
if you do blender if you do like
workloads that require more threads keep
hyperthreading enabled now active eor if
you play Call of Duty I would recommend
keeping this on all however if you don't
play Call of Duty and if you just play
fortnite valerant and a little bit of
Apex and all these other games CS2 then
you can just set this to zero and it
will most likely boost your FPS by a lot
but for Call of Duty it's the opposite
saying this to all for Call of Duty
actually increases your FPS as long as
you have the right render worker count
so for me I'm going to leave this on all
cuz I do play Call of Duty so if I
didn't play Call of Duty if I just play
Four I would set this to zero but
anyways I'm going leave this to all Nel
adaptive thermal monitor disable that
that's a power saving feature Nel Cay
disable that and the issue with Nel C
state is it does increase your
temperatures so if your CPU cooler is
terrible guys don't follow this video
whatsoever if your CPU Cooler is
terrible I'm not going to lie but
anyways entel speed ship technology
disable that then scroll down to pretty
much the bottom we're going to disable
this TVB stuff so TVB ratio clipping TVB
ratio clipping enhanced and TVB voltage
optimizations and then just DMI link
speed make sure this is maxed out then
press escape to go back scroll down and
then extreme memory profile for everyone
set this to enabled now depending on the
speed as you can see my speed is 7,200
if I didn't have this specific
motherboard this speed would not work if
I had a four dim motherboard then I
would have to drop this down to 6,800 if
I had a motherboard with four Ram slots
but I don't have that I have a
motherboard with two Ram slots and it's
guaranteed to work at 7,200 so I will
test around and see if if the memory
that you bought works for your
motherboard if it doesn't then just drop
down the speed by 400 MHz and it should
just work poliy go to advance Dam
configuration and scroll all the way
down to the bottom disable power down
mode this is a power saving feature for
Ram we don't want that press Escape
scroll down and then go to CPU features
at the bottom disable entel
virtualization Tech and disable Intel
BTD Tech these are just virtualization
related things so if you don't use
virtualization just disable do AES
instructions this is pretty much just
encryption instructions so we don't
really need those they're just for
security so you can disable that CFG
lock is just configuration lock just
disable it and then we're going to go to
motherboard settings on the left and
what you're going to do is you're going
to go to Advanced and MSI driver utility
installer disable that and then go to
PCI sub system settings every single gen
mode setting you're going to Max this
out to the highest gen speed so for all
of these it's going to be like Gen 4 or
Gen
5 see that one's gen 3 keep maxing these
out and on this motherboard I like to do
is I like setting my first PCI Lane to
x16 plus x0 this basically just sets it
so my graphics card gets the full x16
Lane just do that and then disable pcie
native power management this is a power
saving feature and then go to PCI ASM
settings make sure all of this is
disabled go back twice go to integrated
peripherals and I just disabled this
extra Intel ethernet controller just
because I don't need the a second
ethernet port so I'm disable that and
also I don't need this SATA controller
down here and I don't use the audio
jacks on my motherboard or on my case so
I can just disable the HD audio
controller however if you do use the
audio jacks don't disable that if you do
use your second ethernet port don't
disable that just disable what you don't
use then go back go to Nel Thunderbolt
everyone can do this just disable pcie
tunneling and then go back go to USB
configuration disable xhci handoff
Legacy USB support can also be disabled
however if you disable this setting your
USB will not show up so make sure that
if you're going to disable this setting
you remember to enable it whenever you
plug in a USB then go back and that's
going to be pretty much it for these
settings in BIOS you're now you're going
to go to boot and usually I disable fast
boot if I'm doing a memory overclock
however if you're not overclocking and
you're just leaving your PC on XMP and
stock speeds then you don't really need
to disable this go back go to security
and for most of us that are windows 11
want to make sure secure boat is enabled
and you want to make sure trusted
Computing is set to enabled as well then
just go back twice and what I like to do
is I like to go to hard R Monitor and I
like setting all my fans to full speed
so I'm just going to press F on my
keyboard as you can see it's going to
set all my fans to full speed and you
can see the RPM is raising up that over
here so that's just to make my PC run
cooler and lower temperatures it wors
more performance and better overclocking
so it's good to do then go to OC profile
what I I like to do is I like to save
this as a profile and that's just
because just in case you have to reset
CMOS just in case there's a power outage
and for some reason your PC just resets
the BIOS you can just load all these
settings again and you don't have to do
go all through this whole video again
just load this profile in C a day
however if you do update your bios these
profiles all of these will go away so
make sure not to update your bios
because it will revert any of these
profiles and you have to pretty much
redo all these settings including any
over clocks that you did including any
other changes so that's going to be
pretty much it for these bio settings
what I'm going to do now I'm going to
press F10 to save and exit as you can
see this is all the stuff that we
changed press yes on that and you do
have to give your PC a little bit of
time it's going to shut off turn back on
and then usually turns off one more time
and turns back on if you're enabling XMP
and let's just say you do get an error
due to your RAM it just says memory
overclock failed or something like that
you do have to turn down the ram speed a
little bit or you have the ram in the
wrong slots for everyone that is
watching this video on ddr5 always use
slots 2 and four if you're on ddr4 same
thing however if you filled up all your
slots and your motherboard don't worry
about it and as you guys can see now
we're loading up so now I'm going to
choose zos and now we're going to hop
right back into the PC and we're going
to check our temperatures and make sure
everything is applied all right so to
check our temperatures we're going to
use this program called HW info I've
showed this in many videos but all
you're going to do is go to the website
in the description hover over installer
click free download and click local it's
going to start downloading and then just
open up the exe and go through the whole
HW info setup now once you're here
you're going to make sure you check
sensors only that's very important once
you do that click Start and as you guys
can see we're going to be looking at
core temperatures and CPU package these
are the two things that you need to
check after doing those previous bio
settings and make sure they're not
hitting 80° or above while you're gaming
so now I'm going to launch Call of Duty
hop in the match and see what it's
looking like all right everyone so as
you guys can see now we're in game we're
hitting about 70° on the CPU package
around 50 now so this is perfectly fine
there's going to be no issues regarding
performance or any temperatures while
I'm running at this temperature right
here so make sure that you guys are not
hitting above 80° while playing again if
you guys are you need a new CPU Cooler
and you need to just revert the bio
settings that we have done at least just
revert the Nel C State setting and keep
everything else whatever you set it to
so that's how to basically make sure the
bio settings are not going to give you
any issues and how to make sure that
you're not going to reduce your
performance by doing bio settings that
increase your temperatur so anyways guys
that's going to be pretty much it for
this video comment down below if these
bio settings helped you they will in
fact definitely helped you just because
I use these same bio settings on clients
now if you're interested in getting a
optimization done for your computer go
to the link in the description and head
over to z.net we go through overclocking
your RAM overclocking your CPU
overclocking your graphics card setting
up a custom windows 11 installation and
making sure that all of your games are
using the correct configuration files
and and the correct settings so if
you're interested in that go to the link
in the description we've worked with top
professional players in a game called
fortnite so we've worked with the best
of the best in Esports if you guys are
interested drop down below but anyways
leave a like subscribe to this YouTube
channel for more videos like this and if
you guys are in need of any assistance
or help just comment down below or join
my Discord server I'll be gladly to
answer your questions but I'll see you
guys in the next one peace out